>> Brian Holt: I take a little bit
of a break from writing React, and
we're going to talk about tools,
which seem to bother everyone but me.
I love tools, that's why I've worked
in Dev Tools for a very long time.
I've shown you enough
vanilla JavaScript React for
you to know exactly what's
happening underneath the hood.
From here, we're going to move into JSX,
which was a huge barrier to adoption for
a lot of people,
especially early in the life of React.
Where they're like, hey we don't
really want to write this compiled to
JavaScript language, it feels weird.
But we'll get there in just a second, for
now we're gonna set up all the tools so
that we can do that.
So the first thing is we're gonna use npm,
I'm gonna use npm for
the life of this course,
feel free to use Yarn,
previous versions of this
course have used Yarn before.
pnpm, you can see I have a call
out to that one as well,
I think that's getting more and
more popular, but
it's kind of hard to go wrong
with just straight up npm.
If you're not familiar with npm, it does
not not stand for node package manager,
but it kind of stands for
node package manager that's what they say.
They say it doesn't stand for that, and
then they just finish the sentence and
don't say anything else,
it's kind of annoying.
Anyway, it is the package manager for node
js, and it allows you to install these
things directly off of the MPM registry,
which is now owned by GitHub.
Which is in turn by owned by Microsoft.
It allows you to do things like npm run or
npm install react and things like that.
So in our project,
let's go do the first thing here,
you can go ahead and stop serve,
we won't be using that anymore,
that's control c if you're
not familiar with the Linux.
All right, so I'm gonna do npm init
dash y, the dash y just says I don't
wanna answer any of your dumb questions,
just generate a file for me.
But if you wanna answer the questions,
just leave off the dash y and
you'll see that you'll get
out of here a packaged JSON.
Here, and this allows you to start
saving things to your project,
the reason why this is useful to us is
that we can say, npm install react.
It'll go and solve React for us, and
it'll store the version of React
that we're using in the project.
So that when I share this with you later,
you can go install it and you'll get
the same version of React or a compatible
version of React, that I'm using.
But I don't have to save React in my repo,
so we don't have to ever have a trillion
copies of React floating out on GitHub
right, we get one copy of React.
And if React has a critical vulnerability,
stuff like that happens,
they're able to patch it so
that next time you go to install it,
you'll get the patch version
not the insecure version.
>> Brian Holt: Okay
hopefully that worked for
you if not you'll probably have
to go to the node.js page.
And install node however you
choose to do that but again and
make sure you end up on node 20.6 or
above please.
>> Brian Holt: Feel free to use pnpm,
it does relatively the same thing,
I'd be very confident that it
would work just as well Yarn,
less so these days I haven't
used Yarn in a long time.
>> Brian Holt: You might have noticed
when I've been writing code here,
that if I do something like this,
let's close this come on.
So if I do like this and I put a bunch
of space and then whenever I hit save,
Slash [INAUDIBLE] Thank you it just fixes
all my spacing for me automatically,
I cannot be bothered to handle
spacing anymore like that.
That process in my brain that thinks about
code formatting has just been shut down
and at this point it's been shut down for
so long, it's attribute.
So I literally cannot fathom how to write
well formatted code anymore because
prettier just doesn't for
me automatically every single time.
So, Prettier is a code formatter,
it takes in unformatted code and
it spits out formatted code,
it's my favorite tool in JavaScript ever.
It's literally changed
the way that I write code and
blessed be to the Prettier gods.
So, let's go ahead and
start this project for Prettier,
all you have to do is create
a file called .prettierrc,
and then I put the very controversial
empty object as my config.
Which is just saying use all the defaults.
>> Brian Holt: My least favorite thing is
a bike shedding about code formatting,
I hate it.
I have been in so
many meetings over the years of like,
we should be using tabs versus spaces or
commas at the end or
automated semicolon insertion or
not, all those different things.
And my message to you is I
can't fathom any caring for
it, it's my least favorite
thing to talk about.
So that's why I put this empty object here
is whatever someone else chooses for me,
I don't care as long as it gets formatted
in a uniform way, I don't care.
So that's what that is.
I have a VS Code extension here so
if you're following along in
VS Code I'm going to suggest you
install the Prettier code formatter.
There's several so make sure you get the
one that's officially from Prettier and
then go into one of your JS files.
You can hit it's either
shift command p on a Mac or
ctrl shift p on Linux and Windows and
then choose Format Document.
If this is your first time doing it,
it's gonna say,
hey you need to choose a formatter and
just choose Prettier and
then that'll set that up so
that formats your documents.
And then if you hit command comma or
control comma, and
then you wanna do format on save and
just make sure that that one's checked.
>> Brian Holt: Then you're ready to roll.
And then you'll get exactly the same
thing, so you can just mess up formatting,
make it terrible.
Let's de-indent everything
because that just, it makes
everyone ill to look at that code and
you just save it and it just fixes itself.
I know I want everyone to use VS Code, but
I also used to work with the Primeagen,
so [LAUGH] not everyone's gonna
use VS Code, turns out, right?
So you need to set up all of your
projects to work with anyone's tools,
not just your own tool.
So let's go ahead and
set up Prettier to work with everybody,
npm install --save-dev or
if you're lazy like me,
npm i -D is the exact same thing.
And we're gonna put Prettier.
>> Brian Holt: And you can see here
we have a devDependency right, so
this only needs to be installed in
development environments, not for
protection environments.
That's what the devDependency means.
And then, under scripts,
we're going to do this,
I'm going to set format and
you're going to do
prettier dash--write, and
we're just going to say,
do everything in the source directory.
>> Brian Holt: And
then you need to do js, jsx, ts, tsx,
whatever file formats
you wanted to look at.
That's probably a pretty good list,
we're not going to have any
TypeScript in this, so
you could leave the TypeScript stuff out,
but js, jsx, css,
you could put HTML in here as well.
Preview doesn't work with everything, but
they're actually expanding it to a lot of
other languages now, make sure you
need a comma there at the end.
>> Brian Holt: And now we should
be able to run npm run format,
that's what the scripts are for.
It's basically, please remember these
bash commands for me so later so
I don't have to remember
how to write this.
You can just say npm run format and
it'll run that for you, and
I needed a closing quote here.
Make sure you have the quotes here,
the backslash is just an escape character,
right?
The reason why you want the quotes here
is that you don't want your shell to do
the file expansion.
You want the actual, you want that passed
in literally as a string to Prettier so
that it can go do all the finding
of the correct files.
>> Brian Holt: Now, mine's already running
right, because every time I save the file,
it's running, but you can see so
it says unchanged here, but
if I had something to change there,
it would say.